today we're here at the Chrysler Group
headquarters in Auburn Hills Michigan in
the design dome to talk about the 2014
Jeep Cherokee I'm here to discuss
specifically the engineering attributes
that went into the vehicle that make it
the most capable and refined vehicle in
the segment capability that Cherokee is
what we started the vehicles foundation
on so on-road the vehicle has a
independent front suspension an isolated
rear cradle on the back for improved
on-road performance and powertrain and
drive line NVH acoustical treatments in
the engine department acoustical
treatments and the interior compartment
to all make the road noise the wind
noise all very very pleasant to the
consumer when they're driving down the
road they can still have that
conversation with the occupant in the
rear seat and from an off-road
perspective we have a locker in the rear
a two-speed active drive system which
has a true low range large tires 17-inch
off-road tires for off-road capability
skid plates tow hooks all the things
that lets this vehicle go off-road and
not have any worry the driver about
anything getting damaged so the 2.4
liter multi air engine that we have in
the cherokee it allows us to give
best-in-class range for fuel economy
what we do is we have a system that
allows us to open and close the valves
at specific times during the combustion
portion of the event for the engine
which is unlike anything really in this
segment so all those things allows us to
fine tune the amount of air and fuel
we're putting into the system to
maximize the range of the vehicle on
road so one other thing that we have on
the vehicle is we have a disconnecting
rear drive system but amount allows us
to maximize the vehicles fuel efficiency
so essentially what we're doing is we're
operating the vehicle in front wheel
drive mode until the vehicle actually
needs it to maximize the fuel efficiency
of the vehicle the vehicle has safety
features galore one of the unique
features we have in the 2014 Jeep
Cherokee is a forward collision warning
system it works by utilizing a radar
that bounces off the vehicle or the
object in front of you to determine how
faster you are closing the rate of speed
on that vehicle and if your closing rate
of speed is greater than what we would
anticipate the vehicle will alert you in
the cluster by spouting a message says
please break or break and it also will
the braking system if you have it turned
on to actively try to avoid that
collision from occurring we have 10
airbags with electronic stability
control maybe us we have optional
features as forward collision warning
lane departure warning parallel and
perpendicular Park Assist we have
electronic power steering
we have full curtain airbags in the rear
it's just loaded with features for the
customer really feel like they're safe
secure and allows the vehicle to do
additional interactions without the
customer even knowing that they're even
going on we have three unique driveline
systems on the Cherokee when I say
driveline meaning 4x4 systems we have
the active drive one system we have the
active drive two system and we have an
active drive lock system those systems
allow the vehicle to work in 4x4 mode or
in front-wheel drive mode without the
customer actually ever knowing anything
is going on so it uses certain
environmental triggers vehicle triggers
such as wheel angle wipers being on
headlamps being on temperature of the
outside wheel slip all those things
happen and the vehicle moves from
front-wheel drive to 4x4 mode seamlessly
without the customer even having to do
anything when it's in the auto mode so
on behalf of the Jeep brand i'm brian
Nathan and I thank you for watching and
have a great day